A flag blunder punctured Sun Yang's joy at winning the 200m freestyle -- and prompted the Chinese swimming star to demand a re-run of his victory ceremony. The triple Olympic champion was overjoyed at winning his first gold of the Games, and all was going swimmingly until the flags of China and Japan came loose and crashed to the ground as Sun was belting out the national anthem from the podium. After a delay, the ceremony began again, to titters from the audience as three officials held up the flags, one self-consciously bending his knees as he tried to adjust it to the correct height.


Chinese giant Sun Yang came into the Asian Games with the reputation as a one-man wrecking crew and left savouring his redemption -- and in tears at his own achievements.

The three-times Olympic champion barely broke sweat in scooping four individual gold medals from 200 metres freestyle up to the 1,500m in Jakarta, screamed on by an army of flag-waving cheergirls who had made the trip from China.

Sun sparked controversy at the last Asian Games in 2014 by sneering at the Japanese national anthem after being upset by Kosuke Hagino in the 200m.

Four years older and wiser at 26, swimming's enfant terrible showed his softer side, bursting into tears after Friday's 1,500m victory.

"I didn't train or swim the distance at big competitions since 2014," sobbed the Chinese superstar. "It means to much to me that all the hard work has paid off. It's a huge boost for me."

Sun launched a charm offensive in Indonesia, aware that a hostile crowd will do little for his hopes at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.

"The Japanese swimmers are our rivals -- whether it's Hagino or Daiya (Seto) I can learn a lot from them," said Sun after winning the 1,500m title at a third successive Asian Games.

"Hagino is a cool guy, an inspiration to me. But I need to raise my level for the Tokyo Olympics -- whether it's the 200m, 400m, 800m or even the 1,500m. I'll have to work 200 percent or even 300 percent harder."

"The battle with Japan doesn't end here," he added. "We'll meet again next year (at the world championships) and in 2020."

China's talismanic team leader brushed off talk of crisis after Japan pipped the favourites in overall medals after a titanic six-day struggle.

"We had a very young team," he shrugged. "I tried to take on more events to try and be a role model."

"I was shattered and thought about pulling out of the 1,500m," added Sun. "But I toughed it out to try to inspire."

Although never pushed in Jakarta, Sun did enough to show that he will be a threat in Tokyo after stepping up his long-distance training earlier this year.

"I've got my confidence back, especially in that 1,500m -- I'm buzzing now," said Sun, who set the current world record of 14:31.02 in the 2012 London Olympic final.

But the path back from the darkness he felt in Rio two years ago has been a long and winding one for Sun.

He lost his Olympic 400m title, and Australian rival Mack Horton rubbed salt into the wounds by calling him a "drug cheat" over the three-month ban Sun served in 2014 for taking medicine prescribed for a heart condition.

Unfinished business fuels Sun's drive for the Tokyo Olympics.

"My back hurt but you have to battle through if you want you rewards," he said.

"It's all about gritting your teeth and pushing through the pain."





He's been labelled a "drug cheat" and appears to revel in his reputation as swimming's enfant terrible -- but Chinese beefcake Sun Yang is making the sport sexy again.

The mean and moody 26-year-old is followed around the world by a small army of groupie cheerleaders who treat him like a rock star when he strides out for his races.

He has 32 million followers on Weibo, China's version of Twitter, and with his hulking frame, the controversial Sun is a true force of nature.

To the fans who fork out thousands of dollars to follow him, squealing and waving banners bearing cartoon images of the three-time Olympic champion, he's just a big softie -- albeit a hunky one with rippling muscles.

"Sun Yang is very sexy," 22-year-old Qu Zhiuan told AFP at the Asian Games in Jakarta, where their hero stormed to gold in the 200, 400, 800 and 1,500 metres freestyle.

"He has eight abdominal muscles," gushed the grad student, surrounded by Sun Yang memorabilia.

"But he's also cute and approachable. When you see him on TV shows, he cracks lame jokes with the audience," she added.

"He's not arrogant, he greets his fans -- he even cries."

Sun has been supported by around 80 die-hard fans for his races in Indonesia who audibly swoon when China's biggest sporting idol waves in their direction.

But being a swimming groupie is an expensive hobby -- just ask investment banker Dong Qiong, who has spent an eye-watering $15,000 on travel and hotels since 2016.

"I never miss Sun Yang's races, or his appearances on TV," said the 24-year-old, who boasts numerous photos taken with the star swimmer and claims to have shared a dinner with him.

"I keep accounts. It's a painful amount of money. I think if I keep chasing him like this, by the time he retires I will have spent roughly the down-payment on a flat!"

Dong insists, however, that Sun is worth it.

"He has said he has to perform well because his fans spend a lot of money and travel a long way to see him," she said.

"He dedicates his results to us so it makes me feel that he fights so hard partly because of his fans."

Recent high school graduate Yang Siyuan agrees -- but admits his sex appeal helps.

"One of the biggest reasons I love Sun Yang is his spirit, although obviously he's a hunk too," giggled the 18-year-old.

"He has long legs and a perfect V-shaped body, but there's no conflict between sexy and cute," she insisted.

"He's a genuine guy. When Sun Yang wins he's happy -- and I will be happy if he's happy."

The young women's Jakarta hotel room is cluttered with Sun Yang photos, stickers and flags, many signed by the man himself.

All four belong to the "official" Sun Yang fan club, which they say has around 80,000 members, although many more exist.

One of their passionate number has followed Sun since the 2012 London Olympics.

"I began to love this big kid who liked to cry," said Yang Lu, who has screamed herself hoarse in Jakarta.

"It was very inspiring. He never gives up, even when he's injured."

Sun competed with a fractured foot at the 2016 Rio Olympics, where he scooped gold in the 200m free.

However, he was savaged by rival swimmers over a three-month doping ban he served a year earlier for taking a medicine prescribed to treat heart palpitations.

To fans of Sun, such vitriol was unforgivable.

"The Australian media in particular are not very friendly," huffed Dong, who says she wants to mother Sun.

"Whenever Chinese swimmers do well, they cry foul. It disgusts me actually.

"Maybe in daily life, Sun Yang is too simple and easily tricked. I feel like I want to give him a big hug.

Triple Olympic champion Sun Yang powered to his third win of the meet in the 400m freestyle as he equalled Xu Yanwei's Chinese record of eight Asian Games golds.

"I've swum six races in three days but I hung in there. It's a nice reward for all the hard work," said Sun.



The three-time Olympic gold medallist clocked a winning time of 3:42.92 -- more than four seconds clear of Japan's Naito Ehara.

"It proves I'm still at the top of my game in the 400," said Sun, who triggered swoons from his flag-waving groupie fans when he waved in their direction.

"I've swum six races in three days but I hung in there. It's a nice reward for all the hard work."

No stranger to controversy, Sun has caused a flap with team sponsors this week by wearing a different tracksuit in Jakarta to the one worn by his team-mates.

Despite sporting the official white tracksuit on Tuesday, when asked to comment he growled: "I'm used to it by now -- it makes no difference to me!"

Chinese superstar Sun Yang eased to the quickest time in the men's 400 metres freestyle heats, leaving the towering three-time Olympic gold medallist on course for a third title in Jakarta.


Acknowledging the cheers from a noisy section of flag-waving Chinese cheergirls, Sun strode away from the pool deck without talking to media.


Chinese battering ram Sun Yang smashed his rivals to create history Monday as the swimming goliath scooped the first-ever Asian Games men's 800 metres freestyle gold with another monstrous performance.

For once though he didn't have it all his own way.

Greeted like a rock star by high-pitched squeals from excitable female fans in Jakarta, the three-time Olympic champion returned to the pool expecting to anchor China to victory in the 4x200m free -- only for the pesky Japanese to tear up the script.

Chinese heavyweight Sun Yang battered his rivals to create history Monday as the swimming goliath scooped the first-ever Asian Games men's 800 metres freestyle gold with another monstrous performance.

Greeted like a rock star with high-pitched squeals from a excitable section of female Chinese fans in Jakarta, the triple Olympic champion claimed a runaway victory in a new Games record of seven minutes, 48.36 seconds.

Sun, who blazed to the 200m title at the weekend, uncoiled his rippling two-metre frame to pull away over the second half of the race to leave Japan's Shogo Takeda and Vietnam's Nguyen Huy Hoang flailing in his wake.

"I was saving some energy for tonight's relay," growled Sun, who returns later in the men's 4x200m freestyle relay.

"The plan was to pick up the pace over the last 200 metres and it went well. That will give me confidence for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics."




Swimmer Sun Yang led China to a clutch of gold medals on Sunday as the regional heavyweights started the 2018 Asian Games where they left off in 2014 -- on top of the medals table.

The triple Olympic champion was left fuming by a flag malfunction in his victory ceremony, but not before he cruised to 200 metres freestyle victory over Japan's Katsuhiro Matsumoto.

In chaotic scenes Sun, 26, demanded a re-run of the ceremony when the pole carrying the national flags fell down as he was proudly singing the Chinese anthem.


Chinese giant Sun Yang swept to Asian Games 200m freestyle gold Sunday to add to his Olympic and world titles -- then had his national anthem played twice after a flag-pole malfunction.

The triple Olympic champion produced a blistering last two laps to clock one minute, 45.43 seconds and successfully launch his quest to win five gold medals in Jakarta.

Victory was twice as sweet for Sun, who was stunned by Japan's Kosuke Hagino at the last Asian Games in 2014 and also took silver behind Korean rival Park Tae-hwan in 2010.

From the moment Sun strode out sporting a bright yellow tracksuit and huge red headphones to roars from flag-waving Chinese fans, there was only ever likely to be one winner.

The 26-year-old favourite absolutely smashed the final, finishing more than a second clear of Japan's Katsuhiro Matsumoto, celebrating by screaming out loud and punching the air as he soaked up the applause of his adoring fans.

"I've waited eight years for this title," said an emotional Sun, easily China's biggest sporting personality.

"It also gives me a golden grand slam of Olympic, world and Asian titles. It's a perfect result, a dream. It's unbelievable."

Bizarrely his moment of glory was soured somewhat when the flags fell off the pole during China's national anthem, prompting Sun to growl at officials and demand a do-over.

But flustered Games officials did away with the faulty pole altogether and simply held the flags.

Earlier, Sun showed a softer side to his gnarly public image by lavishing compliments on rival Hagino.

The controversial Chinese sparked a diplomatic row at the 2014 Asian Games when he branded the Japanese national anthem "ugly".

But Sun has launched a charm offensive from day one in Jakarta.





Chinese giant Sun Yang has all the tools to be the perfect swimmer -- the predatory instinct and a two-metre physique that can intimidate before a race has even started.

But the triple Olympic champion and nine-time world title holder is also one of the most divisive competitors in the pool, a magnet for controversy who seems to upset officials and rivals wherever he goes.

He's been labelled a drug cheat after serving a three-month suspension in 2014 for using a prescribed medication to treat a heart condition, saying he was unaware it had been added to the banned list.

Sun triggered a diplomatic row with Japan at the last Asian Games four years ago when he petulantly branded their national anthem "ugly".

He has also irked Chinese officials with his sponsorship deals and once spent a week in a detention centre for a driving offence.

But Sun carries on, unfazed by all the kerfuffle and seemingly revelling in his reputation as swimming's bad boy.

To those who know him best, nothing could be further from the truth. Sun's part-time coach believes the Chinese superstar is a gentle giant.

"He's actually a very sensitive guy," said Denis Cotterell. "He's very emotional and he gets upset by a lot of the things that are said and written about him because a lot of it just isn't true."

Australian Cotterell has worked with Sun for years and describes him not only as the most dedicated swimmer he's trained, but also one of the most respectful.

As China's greatest swimmer, Sun is under constant pressure to win every time he dives into the pool.

"I get cheesed off when people bring up cheap shots because they don't know what they're talking about," Cotterell said.

"He's got a really nice, sensitive side and he respects people in the sport much better that the picture that is painted of him."

Sun considered quitting swimming after the Rio Olympics when he was taunted by some of his rivals over the doping ban, which he insists was nothing more than an innocent mistake.

After winning the 400m and 1,500m freestyle golds at London in 2012, he showed his incredible versatility by taking out the 200m in Brazil.

With nothing to prove and a long list of sponsors ensuring his financial security, he could have walked away from the sport.

But the 26-year-old decided to refocus his efforts on long-distance events despite finding success in sprints, meaning a lot of extra hours churning through the laps.

At the Asian Games, he has entered the 200m, 400m, 800m and 1,500m as well as the 4x200m relay -- part of a process building towards the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.

"He was under so much pressure at Rio but he doesn't want to let anyone down," said Cotterell.

"He's a very proud man and he treats his position of being the number one sports star in a country that size very seriously."




The freestyle events are likely to be the hottest tickets in Jakarta with China's triple Olympic champion Sun Yang set to go in the 200m, 400m, 800m and 1500m.



Sun Yang was a surprise absentee in the men's 1500m freestyle heats on Saturday as the world-record holder again opted out at the world aquatic championships.

A Chinese official told reporters the decision was taken to 'protect his health' as Sun has complained of tiredness.

Despite his no-show, the 25-year-old Chinese giant trained on Saturday and is due to race in the men's 4x100m medley relay on Sunday.

Sun has a history of dropping out of the 1500m at the 11th hour at world championships.

He was a no-show for the men's final in 2015 after citing heart problems during the warm-up.

After winning freestyle golds over 200m and 400m in Budapest, Sun had complained of fatigue before flopping in the men's 800m freestyle final on Wednesday.


Chinese superstar Sun Yang can underline his domination of the 800m freestyle with a fourth straight gold in the final.

The 25-year-old first, already a winner in the 200m and 400m freestyle in Budapest, has claimed the 800m title at each of the past three world championships.



Chinese superstar Sun Yang flopped to a disappointing fifth place in the men's 800m freestyle final at the world championships on Wednesday as Italy's Gabriele Detti claimed a surprise victory.

Detti touched the wall at seven minutes, 40.77 seconds with Wojciech Wojdak of Poland claiming silver at 0.96 back and Italy's Gregorio Paltrinieri earning bronze at 1.67.

Sun, the gold medallist in the event at the each of the last three world championships, produced an uncharacteristically poor performance to finish 8.10 off Detti's pace.

The 25-year-old Sun, who has already won 200m and 400m golds in Budapest, put his poor display down to tiredness.

"I was too tired towards the end, my arms and legs were very tired," he complained.

"I wanted to test my limits during all the events, but the 200m and 400m took a lot out of me. The competition is very high in those events.

"I spent 70 percent of my energy on the 200m and 400m and I didn't have enough left.

"When I go back home, I will reflect on whether to keep doing the 800m," he admitted.



Chinese superstar Sun Yang won the men's 200m freestyle gold at the world aquatics championships on Tuesday.

Sun touched the wall first in one minute 44.39 seconds with Townley Haas of the United States taking silver, at 0.65sec back, while Russia's Aleksandr Krasnykh earned bronze at 0.84.





Sun Yang was gracious following his 400m freestyle victory at the world championships on Sunday as he took revenge over Olympic champion Mack Horton.

Sun clocked 3min 41.38sec, finishing 2.47 seconds ahead of second-placed Horton, who had previously dubbed his rival a dope cheat prior to beating the Chinese superstar at the Rio de Janeiro Games.

Italy's Gabriele Detti took bronze at 2.55sec as Sun dominated the Budapest final, building on his commanding lead at the halfway point.

Horton had taunted Sun again before the Budapest race, saying it was 'a rivalry between clean athletes and those who tested positive'.

The Australian was referring to Sun's three-month ban in 2014 for taking a stimulant.

However, Sun enjoyed sweet revenge at the Duna Arena and splashed the water, giving a triumphant roar, when he touched the wall first.

But despite taking revenge after his long-standing war of words with Horton, Sun was gracious towards his rival.


Sun's victory in Budapest means he now has eight world gold medals spanning four championships dating back to Shanghai in 2011.

He has now won the 400m world title at each of the last three championships after his Barcelona 2013 and Kazan 2015 triumphs.

Having had to eat humble pie, Horton said his 400m time in the final was more painful than the actual defeat.


Sun could finish with four world golds in Budapest with the 200m, 800m and 1500m freestyle races still to come.

Sun's winning time was 1.31secs behind Paul Biedermann's world record -- set at the 2009 worlds during the era when the now-banned neoprene suits were used.

The Chinese star said he is working towards lowering the eight-year-old record -- one of the few which still stands from that era.




Australia's Mack Horton and China's Sun Yang will resume their bad-tempered rivalry in the pool when the swimming section of the world aquatic championships starts on Sunday.

Horton ended Sun's four-year domination of the 400m freestyle event in spectacular style at last year's Rio De Janeiro Olympics after branding Sun a 'drug cheat' in the build-up.

Sparks are expected to further fly with both also registered to swim over 200m, 800 and 1500m freestyle in Budapest and Horton took another dig at Sun on Friday.

"I think it's a rivalry between elite athletes and athletes who have tested positive, but there should be some good races," Horton said when asked about facing his rival.

Horton and Sun, who served a three-month ban in 2014, will be battling to be the fastest from Sunday morning's 400m heats into the evening's final and their grudge 'War in the Water' rematch will take star billing at Budapest's Duna Arena.



China's Sun Yang, the 'enfant terrible' of competitive swimming, is set to undergo another test of his fragile temperament at the world championships after a turbulent 2016 Rio Olympics.

Likewise, there will be nowhere for Joseph Schooling to hide in Budapest this month after he stunned Michael Phelps to win Singapore's first-ever Olympic gold last year.

Bad boy Sun spearheads China's assault and will be looking to exact revenge after Australian Mack Horton robbed the hulking Chinese star of his Olympic 400 metres freestyle in Brazil.

Emotions boiled over after a pulsating final in Brazil when Horton branded Sun a "drug cheat" -- a reference to a three-month doping ban his rival served for taking a banned stimulant Sun said was for a heart complaint.

The pair traded insults, triggering a diplomatic row with Chinese state-run media calling Australia a "second-class citizen" of the West, before Sun bounced back to win gold in the 200m.

Expect sparks to fly again in Budapest with Sun and Horton set to lock horns in the 200m and 400m, as well as the 800m and 1,500m freestyle -- events Sun has dominated in recent years.





The pressure will be on 25-year-old Chinese giant when he again locks horn with Australia's Mack Horton in the men's 400m freestyle on Sunday -- dubbed the "War in the Water II".

Horton, 21, dethroned Sun over 400m at the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics, having called his rival a 'drug cheat' in the build-up, a remark the Chinese branded a 'cheap trick' to upset him.

The dig was a reference to Sun's three-month doping ban for taking a banned stimulant which the Chinese superstar, the 400m and 800m world champion, said was for a heart complaint.

Sun dominated the 400m freestyle event from 2012 until his defeat in Rio and is desperate to re-establish his authority in Budapest.

He has swum the fastest over 400m this year and can stamp his authority from the first day in Sunday's heats and final.

Sparks are expected to further fly with both also registered to swim over 200m, 800m and 1,500m freestyle.




China's Sun Yang thundered to Olympic gold in the men's 200 metres freestyle Monday to banish his inner demons after a stinging loss at the weekend.

The talismanic Chinese giant bounced back from losing his 400m title to Australian Mack Horton by reeling in fast-starting Chad le Clos to become the first man to win three of the five Olympic freestyle titles.

South African Le Clos went out in explosive fashion and was still leading at the final turn before Sun mowed him down over the final 50 metres to win in one minute, 44.65 seconds.

It was Sun's third Olympic gold medal after winning the 400 and 1,500m titles in London four years ago.

Le Clos, who is set for a showdown with Michael Phelps in Tuesday's 200m butterfly final, took silver in 1:45.20 and American Conor Dwyer bronze in 1:45.23.

Sun's run-in with Horton sparked a diplomatic incident after the Australian sniffed: "I don't have time for drug cheats."

The hulking Chinese, who has frequently courted controversy since his shooting to fame in London, secretly served a three-month drugs suspension for testing positive for the banned stimulant trimetazidine in 2014.

He claimed it was for a heart condition but Horton stood by his comments after stripping Sun of his 400m title. That prompted China's state-run media to label Horton as immoral and his nation as a former "offshore prison."



China's Sun Yang won the 200m freestyle gold medal at the Olympic swimming pool here Monday.

Sun, who has been at the centre of a spat with an Australian rival over his drug-tainted past, finished in 1min 44.65sec.

Chad le Clos of South Africa took silver and Conor Dwyer of the United States won bronze.





Australian swimmer Mack Horton's comment that China's Sun Yang was a "drugs cheat" also drew outrage, with state-run media slamming Australia as a former "offshore prison" in response.



China's Sun Yang will face a battle as he seeks to bounce back in the 200m freestyle from his failure to defend his 400m free title. Sun topped the preliminary times but is no shoo-in in a tightly bunched field also featuring world record-holder Paul Biedermann and world champion James Guy.






China's Sun Yang, denied a 400m free title repeat by Australia's Mack Horton on Saturday, continued his quest for gold as he led the way into the 200m free semi-finals with a time of 1:45.75.

Sun had hit back angrily at being branded a drugs cheat by Horton, and tensions over tainted swimmers competing at the Games continued to bubble.






Mack Horton won his grudge match against China's Sun Yang and Australia's 4x100m free relay women added another gold as records tumbled on day one at the Rio Olympics pool on Saturday.

While it was a triumphant night for Australia, the mighty US team were shut out of the gold -- coming up with three silvers from the four finals.

Horton clocked 3min 41.55sec to hold off a feverish challenge from 2012 gold medallist Sun, who briefly looked to have the Australian beaten on the last lap but had to settle for second in 3:41.68.

Italy's Gabriele Detti roared home in the final 50 meters to capture bronze in 3:43.49.

Sun, stung after the heats by Horton's attack on his doping record, was left weeping after the race.

Horton, whose mild manner and Harry Potter-style spectacles belie his toughness, said he knew that by calling Sun out he'd put himself on the spot.

"Well that last 50 I was kinda thinking about what I said and was like, if he gets me here it's not going to look great," Horton said.

"So (I) really didn't have a choice but to beat him."

Horton's terse comment that he couldn't respect a drug cheat reverberated at an Olympics that started under the cloud of the Russian doping crisis.

Sun, who served a three-month doping suspension in 2014 which wasn't revealed by Chinese authorities until after the fact, insisted he was being unfairly branded.









Sun served a doping ban in 2014 after testing positive for a newly-banned stimulant. He claimed that he did not realise the substance had been added to the banned list.


The new world champion is Sun Yang, the Chinese swimmer who won last year’s Olympic gold medal in the same event. His winning time was 1min 44.39sec. The silver medal went to Townley Haas of the USA, with Russia’s Aleksandr Krasnykh picking up the bronze.



Sun, the Chinese swimmer, was fastest in 1min 44.63 sec, way ahead of Guy who took the last berth with his time of 1:46.23 , more than a second slower than his best of 2016.





uy made a blistering start to his first Olympic final in the early hours of yesterday morning — leading after the first 300m only to fall away, finishing sixth as Australia's Mack Horton held off Sun Yang, the controversial Chinese swimmer, for gold.

There was little time for the 20-yearold, who won silver over the distance at last year's World Championships, to ponder the result as he was back in the pool yesterday for the heats of the 200m freestyle, in which he is the world champion.

Guy qualified fifth-fastest in 1min 46.13sec for the semi-finals, with Sun, who has a doping ban and a seven-day prison sentence to his name, the fastest qualifier in 1:45.75 and the Bury swimmer admitted that he had to pick himself up after a difficult first night.


Sport thrives on duels and, as the Olympic Games begin in earnest tonight, Rio can thrill to a clash between Great Britain's self-styled "saddo" with the penchant for swimming videos and a man who has left a sulphurous trail of crashed cars, broken lockers and failed drug and heart tests. They are the yin and yang of day one.

James Guy is the good guy in this battle for the 400m freestyle crown. In the naughty corner is China's Sun Yang, who was once a hero to the Bury-born Briton but who has more recently infused water-based brilliance with a fetish for calamity when on dry land.

The expectation round Guy and Adam Peaty ending a 28-year drought for British men in Olympic pools could be stifling. Guy beat Sun over 200m at the World Championships in Russia last year and the roles were reversed in the 400m as if paving the way for Rio's meeting of conflicting minds.

Guy is resolutely humble. The nearest he gets to cockiness is admitting a liking for Floyd "Money" Mayweather, the boxer big on self-love. His only concession to scandal is an admission that he and Peaty, his room-mate here, sometimes "break wind together".

His father, Andrew, seems more bullish, which may stem from his time as a physical training instructor in the Army. "I remember me saying to my dad last year that I wanted to go to Kazan and get a World Championship medal. And he said to me, 'Son, go to Kazan, win and then absolutely smash it the year after.' That's what he's like. I never want to sound cocky so I just want to do my best," Guy says.

Guy is proud of his northern roots but moved to a posh private school, Millfield, on a scholarship. He describes the entrance as "like Hogwarts" and class-mates included Lord Coe's son and the "the nephew of the Man City owner". This week he admitted to being momentarily star-struck when Michael Phelps walked past.

This modest approach jars with the unbridled controversy of Sun Yang. Olympic titles in the 400m and 1,500m in 2012 set him on a troubled cycle. The year after London a Porsche he was driving was involved in a crash with a bus and he was jailed for seven days when police found that he had no licence. His sponsor, car manufacturer Hyundai, was not best pleased either, while the previously fawning Chinese public struggled to accept the "weak knowledge of the law" excuse.

He also split with his Chinese coach, Zhu Zhigen, after a row about the amount of time Sun was spending with an air hostess named Nian Nian. The official Chinese news agency reported at the time: "Aside from a reported love affair making headlines, Sun has systematically been skipping training sessions and instead indulged in commercial activities for over 40 days." Zhu reportedly suffered from high blood pressure and a thyroid nodule after the schism.

In 2014 Sun failed a drugs test for a heart stimulant, but the case did not reach the public domain until six months later, whereupon he was given a risible three-month retrospective ban that went unchallenged by Fina, swimming's governing body, and the World Anti-Doping Agency. He won a hattrick of titles at the Asian Games in the interim, and, when he then beat Guy by 1.17sec to the 400m world title in 2015, opined: "For doping cases I don't understand why the media pays so much attention. It's a lack of respect."

At those same championships in Russia, he allegedly had a row with Chinese officials and kicked out at a locker. The Brazilian Aquatic Sports Federation made a formal complaint against Sun, alleging that he tried to kick and elbow a female swimmer, Larissa Oliveira, while warming up in the pool. Fina cleared Sun of any wrongdoing. To round off this eventful period, he withdrew from the 1,500m so late that the Danish reserve did not have time to get to the pool, and then said that he had been suffering with heart palpitations while he warmed up for the final.





Sun Yang and Wang Jianjiahe, China's unstoppable freestylers, each finished with four golds after winning their last events.

Just 16, Wang added the 400 to her earlier victories in the 800, 1,500 and 4x200 relay. Sun, the former world swimmer of the year, won the 1,500 in 14:58.53, slow by his standards, but still a significant win as it saw him complete an unprecedented sweep of the 200, 400, 800 and 1,500 events.

Sun said he was content with his six medals, including two in relays, and "the achievement here would definitely be a boost to my future races."

The three-time Olympic champion Sun offered to help the team out in the relays even though it took the edge of his preferred distance races.

China's three-time Olympic champion Sun Yang was aiming for his fourth freestyle gold medal of the games, hoping to add the 1,500 title to his victories in the 200, 400 and 800.




Liu also managed to do something else no other swimmer has managed so far at the Asian Games by taking the spotlight from her star teammate Sun Yang and Japanese teenager Rikako Ikee. Sun cruised to a dominant victory in the men's 400 freestyle in 3 minutes, 42.92 seconds, more than two and half seconds off his personal best but still 4.22 ahead of his nearest rival.

"My coach told me before the race tonight: 'You are the reigning world champion and reigning Olympic gold medalist, you need to prove again you are the best in this event,'" Sun said of his motivation. "That was his expectation."

He's now three-quarters of the way to an unprecedented four freestyle titles, having already won the 200 and 800. Only the 1,500 remains and as the reigning Asian games champion and world-record holder, it would be an upset for him to be beaten.

At age 26 and with three Olympic gold medals already, Sun shows no signs of slowing down. He is doing plenty of miles in training to keep up with the expectations of the more than one billion people in China.




Three-time Olympic champion Sun Yang added the 400 title to the freestyle golds he has already won in the 200 and the 800. He's only got the 1,500 left.



Sun Yang won his second gold medal in as many nights at the Asian Games and this time he was rewarded with the raising of a red flag.

It was the Chinese flag at his medal ceremony, much to the satisfaction of the three-time Olympic champion.

Sun set an Asian Games record to win the 800-meter freestyle in 7 minutes, 48.36 seconds on Monday, staying on course in his quest for gold medals in every freestyle event from the 200 to the 1,500-meters in Jakarta.

He kicked it off with an emotional victory in the 200 — he took silvers in that event in the 2010 and 2014 editions — on Sunday night, when the hoist broke during the medal ceremony and the flags crashed to the floor.

Sun demanded that the ceremony start over but the glitch couldn't be properly fixed and the Chinese flag had to be held up by an honor guard rather than hoisted toward the roof of the stadium.



Sun Yang will have to compete for attention at the Asian Games after all.

His bid to win five gold medals has already been sunk after China was beaten in Monday's 4x200-meter freestyle relay, though it was no fault of his.

He'd won the 200 freestyle on Day 1 and the 800 gold on Day 2 less than two hours before the relay. China was well behind Japan when Sun dived in for the anchor leg, only to come up inches short in the lunge to the wall.

Sun has another rival, though not in any of his races




After waiting so long to win this title, Sun Yang really wanted to see his flag flying at the Asian Games.

China's greatest swimmer finally won the 200-meter freestyle gold after placing second at the 2010 and '14 editions of the continental games.

Sun, a three-time Olympic gold medalist and nine-time world champion, had straddled the lane rope and held both arms up in triumph after touching the wall in 1 minute 45.43 seconds Sunday on the first night of finals.

He later climbed a tiered platform full of photographers to shake hands with his supporters in the stands, and choked back tears as he returned to the pool deck.

Everything was going to plan until he was standing atop the podium and a technical malfunction resulted in the flags of the three medalists crashing to the ground. The 6-foot-7 (2-meter) Sun got off the podium, walked to some officials and demanded they do it again.

The flags were re-attached to the broken hoist but couldn't be raised as the anthems were replayed. Sun later played down the incident, saying he was just relieved to win the event.



Sun Yang thought he'd seen it all in his glittering swimming career. That was until Sunday's opening night of swimming finals at the Asian Games.

In an embarrassing technical blunder for games organizers, the flag hoist collapsed during the playing of the Chinese national anthem as Sun stood atop the podium after winning the 200-meter freestyle final.

Officials picked the flags up off the pool deck and hastily reattached them to the broken metal hoist but were unable to raise them again while the anthem was played for a second time, to the bemusement of Sun and spectators watching in the stands.

Diplomatically, Sun played down the incident when quizzed by reporters, saying he was just relieved to finally win the 200 freestyle title which had eluded him in the two previous editions of the Asian Games.

Even though he is the reigning Olympic and world champion, Sun had never won the four-lap race at the Asian games, finishing runner-up to South Korea's Park Tae-hwan in 2010 and second again to Japan's Kosuke Hagino four years ago.

"I've waited eight years for this title," Sun said. "It also gives me a golden grand slam of Olympic, world and Asian titles. It's a perfect result, a dream. It's unbelievable."

Officials held the flags up in their hands for the subsequent medal ceremony before locating a replacement hoist for the remaining presentations. By the end of the night, China edged Japan 4-3 in the first seven finals decided.

Sun, who is trying to win the 200-, 400-, 800- and 1,500-meter freestyle titles in Jakarta, cruised to victory in one minute 45.43 seconds.

He was outside his best but with a busy program the 26-year-old did enough to win comfortably and celebrated in animated fashion, clenching his fists and punching the air in delight.



It's lucky for Sun Yang that he has born with such enormous shoulders.

His 6-foot-7 frame not only helps him churn through the water, but it also helps him carry a heavy burden that only a handful of elite athletes in the world experience.

As China's greatest swimmer, the expectation on Sun to win is intense. After all, he's racing for a country of more than a billion people.

With three Olympic gold medals and nine world titles already, he's already achieved great heights in his sport and earned the financial security that comes from global sporting success.

He might easily have slipped into retirement, but either he won't or can't.

Sun's immediate focus is the 18th Asian Games in Indonesia, where swimming competition begins Sunday. It doesn't have the same kudos as the Olympics or the world championships but for Sun, it's just as important.




China has the largest delegation with 845 athletes. But it's a young team. It includes only 214 who have been in previous Olympics or Asian Games, and only 19 Olympic gold medalists. The most famous is three-time Olympic gold-medal swimmer Sun Yang.
The swimming world championships in Shanghai ends with a jolt when emerging Chinese star Sun Yang breaks the oldest world record in the sport



In the first final of the night, China's Sun Yang got a bit of payback for his Olympic defeat in the men's 400 free, pulling away from rival Mack Horton of Australia.

Yang was in a league of his own in a stacked field that featured the past three Olympic champions: Horton (2016), Sun (2012) and South Korea's Park Tae-hwan (2008).

"I have no exact target for the week," the 25-year-old Sun said through an interpreter. 

The Chinese star finished more than two body lengths ahead of the field, finishing in 3:41.38. Horton settled for the silver, far back at 3:43.85, while Park finished fourth behind bronze medalist Gabriele Detti of Italy.

Horton defeated Sun in the 400 free at Rio after calling him a "drug cheat" over his three-month doping suspension in 2014. The Aussie has made it clear he doesn't think anyone who tests positive should be allowed to compete — which also applies to Park, who served a doping suspension that ended before the 2016 Olympics.



Australian swimming gold medalist Mack Horton isn't backing down from his criticism of Chinese star Sun Yang.

After the team from Down Under arrived in Budapest for the world championships, Horton was asked whether he was looking forward to renewing his rivalry with Sun.


The Australians figure to be in the mix, especially riding the momentum of an impressive opening night at the pool. They captured two gold medals, also taking the men's 400 free when Mack Horton held off defending Olympic champion Sun Yang of China, doubling up on the one gold medal they managed during their disappointing performance at the 2012 London Games.



Mack Horton called Chinese swimmer Sun Yang a drug cheat, and then went out and dethroned the defending Olympic champion in the 400-meter freestyle.

Horton won his first Olympic gold medal with a time of 3 minutes, 41.55 seconds Saturday night before the Australian women capped the first night of swimming with a world-record victory in the 4x100 freestyle relay.

Sun finished second.

After the preliminaries, Horton was asked about a reported incident between him and Sun at the practice pool earlier in the week. The Aussie said Sun "splashed me to say hello, and I didn't respond because I don't have time for drug cheats."

In 2014, Sun served a three-month suspension for using a banned stimulant.

"The last 50 meters I was thinking about what I said and what would happen if he gets me here," said Horton, who beat Sun by just 13-hundredths of a second. "I didn't have a choice but to beat him."

Horton was asked by a Chinese reporter why he described Sun that way.

"I used the words drug cheat because he tested positive," the Aussie said. "I just have a problem with athletes who have tested positive and are still competing."

Horton celebrated his victory without even acknowledging Sun in the lane next to him. Sun made a move as though he wanted to congratulate Horton, but the winner looked the other way. They got out of the pool together but acted as if the other didn't exist.

"I don't think we need to care too much about what the Australian says," Sun said through a translator. "I've got a gold medal (from 2012) and my world ranking. I don't need to prove myself anymore."

Still, Sun defended himself after the race.

"I am clean," he said. "I've done whatever it takes to prove I'm a clean athlete."

Horton and Sun finally gave each other a begrudging handshake on the medal stand, but that was about it.

Sun described the last four years as being "tough," in part because of mistakes he's made.

In November 2013, he was caught driving without a license after an accident in China. At last year's world championships in Russia, he was accused of an altercation with a female Brazilian swimmer in the warm-up pool and then he failed to show up for the 1,500 freestyle final.

"I've learned," the 24-year-old Chinese swimmer said. "I know now to face up to failure and have a broader perspective. Those are invaluable lessons to me. All those hard-learned lessons will guide me through the rest of my life. Being young, sometimes you can get a bit naughty. You don't have a lot of common sense."

China's Sun Yang arrives for the final of the men's 400-meter freestyle during the swimming competitions at the 2016 Summer Olympics, Saturday, Aug. 6, 2016, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. (AP Photo/Matt Slocum) 

Three-times Olympic champion Sun Yang also completed a remarkable four-gold sweep 

The Chinese finished the night with 16 golds, but still have Sun Yang looking to complete his 200m-400m-800m-1,500m sweep in the longest of the freestyle races on Friday.


Sun Yang again stamped his class on the Games in the 400 metres freestyle and even though world record holder Ippei Watanabe was upset in the 200m breaststroke final, the Asian superpowers swept the golds for a third straight night.

Multiple world and Olympic champion Sun's masterful display of power swimming earned him a third title in Jakarta after his triumphs in the 200m and 800m freestyle and helped China edge ahead of Japan in the medals table with 11 golds to 10.


 Sun Yang waited eight years to finally get his hands on the Asian Games 200 metres freestyle gold medal and he wasn't going to take it lying down when a flag malfunction threatened to spoil his special moment.

The 26-year-old was standing on the podium listening to the Chinese national anthem after a commanding victory in Sunday's final when the hoist raising the flags of the three medal winners failed and the apparatus crashed to the ground.

Sun, silver medallist in the event at the last two Games, at first put his hands to his face and shook his head but when it looked like the officials were hoping to move swiftly on from the incident, he took action.

Loping off the podium, the Olympic and world champion approached a group of three officials twirling his finger as if to indicate that they should give it another go.

The officials, dwarfed by the 6ft 7in (2 metre)-tall swimmer, quickly agreed to his request and the March of the Volunteers rang out once again over the tannoy at Jakarta's Gelora Bung Karno Aquatic Centre.




 Sun Yang launched his quest for a possible five-title haul at the Asian Games by finally landing the 200-metres freestyle crown as China won four of seven golds on the first night of competition in the pool on Sunday.

The 26-year-old Olympic and world champion had been pushed into silver at the two previous Games but made no mistake in Jakarta with a commanding victory in one minute and 45.43 seconds.

Gunning for gold in every freestyle event from the 200 to the 1,500 and also a likely relay team member, Sun increased his gold medal tally at Asian Games to six over three editions.

Three of those came four years ago in Incheon after he had served a doping ban, a suspension that has soured his relations with some of his rivals and threatened to sully his legacy.

His compatriots have always backed him passionately, however, and a huge cheer erupted from a large Chinese contingent when he came out onto the deck.

Fifth at the first turn and fourth at the second, Sun stamped his class on the race from the third lap, storming home more than a second clear of Japan's Katsuhiro Matsumoto.

Sun straddled the lane rope to acknowledge the applause of his fans around the Gelora Bung Karno Aquatic Centre before smashing the water in delight at finally claiming the title.

"I can say it's like a dream come true, I've waited eight years for this gold medal and not many swimmers have had to wait that long," he told reporters.

"Maybe people were worried about my 200 as I'm concentrating on the distance events but I've trained hard and I took my chance. The result was perfect.

"I want to have a good rest and continue the meet to help Team China win other events."

The medal ceremony did not go as smoothly with the flags clattering to the deck as they were being raised, forcing Sun to stand on the podium as the March of the Volunteers was played again with military personnel holding up the three standards.



Three-times Olympic swimming champion Sun Yang will be chasing five gold in Jakarta, the 26-year-old's presence in the pool providing much-needed glamour for the Games.


Earlier, Sun Yang of China came back from sixth position at the 100m mark to win his first men's 200m freestyle title at a world championships in dominant fashion.

The Chinese, who has now won two of his four individual freestyle tilts this week, powered to gold in an Asian record time of one minute 44.39 seconds.

Sun's turn of pace edged American Townley Haas into silver, 0.25 seconds behind, with Russian Aleksandr Krasnykh taking bronze.


The morning after China's Sun Yang won the first gold medal of the championships in the 400m freestyle, the 25-year-old looked far from sluggish in leading the way in the 200m freestyle heats, clocking 1min 45.62sec, ahead of defending champion, Britain's James Guy.





Coasting through the water with methodical ease, Sun Yang hardly looked like a man carrying the weight of an expectant Chinese nation.

Only when he touched the wall did the 12,000 people packed inside the Duna Arena see what it meant to the controversial 25-year-old Chinese after his power-driven victory in the men's 400m freestyle final on Sunday.

After winning, Sun sat on the ropes, splashed the water, punched the air and then went to seek out his parents in the crowd.

Sun's time of three minutes 41.38 seconds saw him record a record-equalling third successive 400m freestyle world title as well as keeping up Asia's dominance at the distance since 2009.

That was the year Germany's Paul Biedermann posted a mark 1.31 seconds quicker but back in the bodysuit days when technology aided the times.

Yet Sun, who served a retrospective three-month suspension in 2014 after testing positive for a banned stimulant, believes Biedermann's time can be broken.

"It’s all about training and you have to keep pursuing it yourself," the Chinese told reporters after bagging the first of a possible four individual freestyle golds.

"I have to find new ways to enhance my performance. That’s what I do in reference of my result. I am quite content and satisfied with that. I will keep training more and this I think is the way to break the world record."

He has come close before. At the London 2012 Olympics, he finished 0.07 seconds outside the German's record time.

But Sun has endured several mishaps along the way, notably when a car he was driving without a license collided with a bus in 2013. After the incident, Sun said he was "deeply sorry".

Since being beaten by rival Mack Horton of Australia at last year's Rio Olympics, Sun has been working on his race plan with Australian coach Denis Cotterell.

"To design better techniques with my trainer is a never-ending process," said Sun. "We get better with each other in our way of saying and doing things.

"When I arrived in Australia for training it was still winter, quite cold, barely a few degrees outside and I had to go do my training. These trainings are really hard on your body."

The hard work has paid off as on Sunday he became the second man in history - behind Australia's Ian Thorpe - to win three successive world 400m freestyle crowns.


 China's Sun Yang destroyed the field to win a hat-trick of men's 400 meters freestyle titles 

Sun posted a world-leading time of three minutes 41.38 seconds as he eased to victory by more than a body length over bitter Australian rival Mack Horton.

Horton beat Sun to the Olympic title last year in Rio de Janeiro, with the Australian calling the Chinese a "drug cheat" before the Games in reference to Sun having served a three-month ban in 2014 after testing positive for a banned stimulant.

Sun said at the time that the stimulant was in medication to treat a heart issue and did not enhance his performance.

In a race billed as 'War on the Water, Part 11', the rivalry in the pool failed to materialize on Sunday as Sun become only the second swimmer to win a third 400 freestyle world title after Ian Thorpe of Australia 14 years ago.

The 25-year-old Sun, wearing a distinctive pink swimsuit, looked in ominous form after taking the lead at the 150m mark and, after garnering his eighth world title, he glared at Horton who was racing in lane two after a sluggish morning heat.

The Australian had to settle for silver, 2.47 seconds behind, with Gabrielle Detti of Italy taking bronze.

“I don’t really have a goal in mind for the week,” Sun told reporters on the prospect of reaching 10 golds at these championships.

“I’m in a lot of pain, training a lot for the last year. I’m getting old, a couple of injuries now and then and always wrapped up in tape after a competition. I’ll focus on what is coming this week and get some rest.”

Sun’s time was all the remarkable given his ageing body.




Australia's Mack Horton, the men's 400 metres Olympic freestyle champion, reignited his feud with Chinese rival Sun Yang on Friday, two days before they face each other at the start of the world championships in Budapest.

Tensions flared last summer when Horton called Sun a "drug cheat" before ending the latter’s title defence in a tightly fought 400m freestyle final.

Despite being only 21, Horton is one of Swimming Australia's team leaders in Budapest. But his views on Sun clearly haven't moderated nearly a year on from beating the London 2012 champion into silver in his Olympic debut.

Asked if he was looking forward to resuming battle with Sun, Horton told a news conference: "I don’t think it's a rivalry. I think it's a rivalry between elite athletes and athletes who have tested positive. But there should be some good racing."

Horton was referring to Sun's three-month suspension for using a banned stimulant, a revelation which surfaced three years ago.

It remains to be seen how Chinese social media users will view Horton's fresh comments following the backlash meted out against the Australian last August.

Thousands of incendiary comments were left on the swimmer’s Instagram account - which numbered at least 200,000 on one photo post alone - and were subsequently deleted by the Australian Olympic Committee (AOC).

At the time, Chinese state media reacted to Horton's remarks by calling Australia "uncivilised" and "Britain's offshore prison". The Australian delegation in Rio said they would support Horton's right to speak freely on the issue.

Sun heads the world rankings leading into Sunday morning's heats of the men's 400m freestyle, with the final scheduled for the evening in the Hungarian capital.

The 25-year-old Chinese is the only swimmer to dip under three minutes 43 seconds this season, while Horton has posted the third quickest time.

At the Chinese national championships in April, Sun served warning of his form by winning all five freestyle events from 100m through to the 1500m.

Continued fractious relations at the top of the rankings have left the men's 400m dubbed "War on the Water, Part II". (Reporting by Rod Gilmour; editing by Mark Heinrich) 


Mack Horton called Chinese rival Sun Yang a 'drug cheat'.
Mack Horton, 20, called Chinese rival Sun Yang a "drug cheat"
Doping allegations have plagued this year's swimming competitions after Australian Mack Horton called his rival and fellow Olympic swimming gold medallist Sun Yang a "drug cheat",
called Chinese swimming rival Sun Yang a "drug cheat" before they competed in Saturday's men's 400 metres freestyle final, demanding that he apologise.               


Sun Yang became the first Chinese swimmer to win the Olympic men's 200 metres freestyle gold medal on Monday.

Sun, silver medallist in the event in London four years ago, touched the wall in one minute, 44.65 seconds to beat South Africa's Chad Le Clos by 0.55 seconds.

It was Sun's second medal of the Games after silver in the 400 free on Saturday.

Mack Horton, demanding he apologise for calling swimming rival Sun Yang a "drug cheat".               




Sun blamed fever and flu medication for his poor showing.

He swam in the same heat as Australia's Mack Horton, who beat him in the 400m on Saturday after describing him as a drug cheat because of a past suspension, a comment that prompted hundreds of thousands of Chinese Internet users to bombard Horton with demands for an apology that was not forthcoming.

Asked about Sun's absence from the final, Horton said: "It doesn't really matter if he's there or not, to be honest. Just doing my own thing."

He said he had not been paying much attention to the furore over his comments. "The Olympic Village is kind of like a bubble and you just stick to your own sort of thing in your little tower, basically."


Sun, also champion at 400m in London, had been considered a certainty for the final. He has already won a gold in the 200m freestyle and silver in the 400 this week.

China's world record holder and Olympic 1,500 metres freestyle swimming champion Sun Yang failed to qualify for the finals of the event at the Rio Games on Friday.

Sun, who has already won a 200m freestyle gold and 400m silver, was only 16th fastest overall with the top eight going through to Saturday's final.



China's Sun Yang responded to Australian taunts about his doping history in emphatic fashion on Monday by winning the men's 200 metres freestyle title to complete a golden Olympic treble.

Sun, who won the 400 and 1500 freestyle at the London Games, touched the wall in one minute, 44.65 seconds to beat South Africa's Chad Le Clos by 0.55 seconds and become the first Chinese to win 200m gold.

Conor Dwyer of the United States won bronze.

Sun also won silver in Saturday's 400 free and despite his delight at winning on Monday he still felt a twinge of regret that he was not celebrating his fourth Olympics title.

"I felt very sorry that I did not execute my responsibilities," he said of the previous race. "In normal circumstances it should have been two gold medals (in Rio)."

In his delight at winning, Sun took off his cap and attempted to throw it to Chinese supporters in the crowd above him, but it landed in the pool and he had to retrieve it.

It was not his first misstep of a controversial week that has seen a splashing incident in training escalate into a battle conducted via the media between him and his Australian rivals.

A Chinese state newspaper described Australia as "uncivilized" and "Britain's offshore prison" as it rushed to Sun's defence after he was labelled a drugs cheat by Australian 400 freestyle gold medallist Mack Horton.

Sun was revealed two years ago to have secretly served a three-month suspension for using a banned stimulant. He said it was medication to treat a heart issue and did not enhance performance.

"Whatever was in the past, was in the past," he said.

"The medal to me means I have to work even harder. To me the gold medal is a good foundation for next year's world championships."

Dwyer sounded supportive: "Sun brings it home like nobody else," he said.

"Sun will go down as one of the best freestylers of all time and it's an honour to race him."

Britain's world champion James Guy, whose room mate Adam Peaty stormed to breaststroke gold on Sunday and ended his country's 28 year wait for a male Olympic swimming champion, finished fourth.




A Chinese state newspaper described Australia as "uncivilized" and "Britain's offshore prison" as it rushed to the defence of champion swimmer Sun Yang, who was labelled a drugs cheat by Australian rival and gold medallist Mack Horton.

The row, which started at the Rio Games with a friendly splash in training between the two arch rivals, is turning into a battle of national media commentators and underlines how the issue of doping has become a defining issue for these Olympics.

The Global Times, an influential tabloid published by the ruling Communist Party's People's Daily, said Horton had shown a lack of respect to Sun and "cynical smugness" after beating the Chinese swimmer in the men's 400 metres freestyle final.

Sun, who finished second, was revealed two years ago to have secretly served a three-month suspension for using a banned stimulant. He said at the time the stimulant was in medication to treat a heart issue and did not enhance his performance.

Horton first described Sun as a "drug cheat" in an interview with Australian media on Saturday, hours ahead of the final, and has since stuck by his words, including at a post-race news conference while seated right next to Sun.

"It's not a big deal to us. In many serious essays written by Westerners, Australia is mentioned as a country at the fringes of civilization," the Global Times said in a commentary.

"In some cases, they refer to the country's early history as Britain's offshore prison," it added, referring to Australia's past as a British penal colony.

"This suggests that no one should be surprised at uncivilized acts emanating from the country. We should think the same way," it said.

Horton told the Sydney Morning Herald that he had made his comments to unsettle Sun, who was the London 2012 defending champion, but that the description was accurate.

Furious Chinese fans have bombarded Horton's Facebook and Instagram accounts, demanding he apologise.

Chinese state newspaper China Daily said the International Olympic Committee (IOC) was looking into Horton's comments, but an IOC spokesman said it had no plans to investigate.

"People say many things in competition,. At the moment we had no complaints from anyone for any leads to follow up on," the spokesman said.

Australia's Daily Telegraph defended Horton in a Sunday editorial, saying he should rejoice in the rage of Chinese fans "who don't seem to accept that their hero has a documented involvement with illegal drugs".

The Global Times said that Australia should feel embarrassed with Horton's remarks: "If Horton won the competition by disrupting his rival in an immoral way, his win is disgraceful, and not in line with the spirit of the Olympics."

The online row has also been felt elsewhere. A man named Mark Horton from Watford, England, tweeted that he had received more than 200,000 mentions and online abuse after being mistaken for the Australian swimmer on Twitter. (Additional reporting by Karolos Grohmann; Editing by Mark Bendeich) 



Tensions flared between Olympic champion Mack Horton and China's Sun Yang in the moments after their tightly-fought men's 400 metre freestyle final, as the Australian confirmed reports that he had earlier described his rival as a "drug cheat".

Horton, who defeated London champion Sun on Saturday, confirmed remarks he had made to the Australian Associated Press (AAP) about tensions between the two during training.

"I used the word 'drug cheats' because he tested positive," he told reporters about the report that was published before Saturday's final.

Sun, sitting next to Horton at the media conference, served a three-month ban in 2014 after testing positive for a banned stimulant. He said China's sports programmes were clean.

"On the competition stage, every athlete deserves to be respected and there's no need to use these sort of cheap tricks to affect each other," the 24-year-old Sun added.

Sun, who broke down in tears while talking to reporters after the race and became red-eyed again after the press conference, has suffered a number of setbacks since he won two gold medals at the London Games in 2012.

In 2013, he spent a week in jail for crashing a car driven without a license, and last year was involved in an altercation with a Brazilian swimmer at the World Championships in Russia.

In the AAP report, Horton said Sun had splashed water at him during training.

"It got played up a bit but he splashed me to say hi and I ignored him, I don't have time or respect for drug cheats," Horton was quoted as saying in the AAP report.

"He wasn't too happy about that so he kept splashing me and I just got in and did my thing."

